# Introduction

This repository holds OSGi RFP and RFC documents. RFP documents are requirements documents and found in the [rfps/](rfps/) folder. RFC documents are design documents and found in numbered subfolders of the [rfcs/](rfcs/) folder.

The documents in this repository are non-final specification design work which either propose to modify existing published OSGi specifications from the OSGi specification documents or propose new specifications to potentially be incorporated in future OSGi specification documents.

Readers are expected to be familiar with OSGi Technology and the currently published OSGi specification documents. Readers should refer to <http://www.osgi.org/Technology/HomePage> for more information on the OSGi Technology. There readers can find a description of the OSGi Technology, as well as links to whitepapers and the OSGi specification documents, which are all available for download.

A list of RFCs in this repository is at [http://wiki.osgi.org/wiki/RFCs](http://wiki.osgi.org/wiki/RFCs) with links to the RFCs in the [GitHub mirror](https://github.com/osgi/design). This list is maintained by the OSGi community and may not always be up to date.

# License

The contents of this repository are made available to the public under the terms of the [OSGi Distribution and Feedback License](http://www.osgi.org/Main/OSGiDistributionAndFeedbackLicense) which is reproduced below.

> ##OSGi DISTRIBUTION AND FEEDBACK LICENSE, Version 2.0
> 
> The OSGi Alliance hereby grants you a limited copyright license to copy and display this document (the "Distribution") in any medium without fee or royalty. This Distribution license is exclusively for the purpose of reviewing and providing feedback to the OSGi Alliance.  You agree not to modify the Distribution in any way and further agree to not participate in any way in the making of derivative works thereof, other than as a necessary result of reviewing and providing feedback to the Distribution.  You also agree to cause this notice, along with the accompanying consent, to be included on all copies (or portions thereof) of the Distribution. The OSGi Alliance also grants you a perpetual, non-exclusive, worldwide, fully paid-up, royalty free, limited license (without the right to sublicense) under any applicable copyrights, to create and/or distribute an implementation of the Distribution that: (i) fully implements the Distribution including all its required interfaces and functionality; (ii) does not modify, subset, superset or otherwise extend the OSGi Name Space, or include any public or protected packages, classes, Java interfaces, fields or methods within the OSGi Name Space other than those required and authorized by the Distribution. An implementation that does not satisfy limitations (i)-(ii) is not considered an implementation of the Distribution, does not receive the benefits of this license, and must not be described as an implementation of the Distribution. "OSGi Name Space" shall mean the public class or interface declarations whose names begin with "org.osgi" or any recognized successors or replacements thereof. The OSGi Alliance expressly reserves all rights not granted pursuant to these limited copyright licenses including termination of the license at will at any time.
> 
> EXCEPT FOR THE LIMITED COPYRIGHT LICENSES GRANTED ABOVE, THE OSGi ALLIANCE DOES NOT GRANT, EITHER EXPRESSLY OR IMPLIEDLY, A LICENSE TO ANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY IT, OR ANY THIRD PARTIES, OWN OR CONTROL.  Title to the copyright in the Distribution will at all times remain with the OSGi Alliance.  The example companies, organizations, products, domain names, e-mail addresses, logos, people, places, and events depicted therein are fictitious.  No association with any real company, organization, product, domain name, email address, logo, person, place, or event is intended or should be inferred.  
> 
> THE DISTRIBUTION IS PROVIDED "AS IS," AND THE OSGi ALLIANCE (INCLUDING ANY THIRD PARTIES THAT HAVE CONTRIBUTED TO THE DISTRIBUTION) MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR TITLE; THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE DISTRIBUTION ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE; NOR THAT THE IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS, TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS. NEITHER THE OSGi ALLIANCE NOR ANY THIRD PARTY WILL BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO ANY USE OR DISTRIBUTION OF THE DISTRIBUTION. 
> 
> Implementation of certain elements of this Distribution may be subject to third party intellectual property rights, including without limitation, patent rights (such a third party may or may not be a member of the OSGi Alliance). The OSGi Alliance is not responsible and shall not be held responsible in any manner for identifying or failing to identify any or all such third party intellectual property rights.
> 
> The Distribution is a draft. As a result, the final product may change substantially by the time of final publication, and you are cautioned against relying on the content of this Distribution.  You are encouraged to update any implementation of the Distribution if and when such Distribution becomes a final specification.  
> 
> The OSGi Alliance is willing to receive input, suggestions and other feedback ("Feedback") on the Distribution.  By providing such Feedback to the OSGi Alliance, you grant to the OSGi Alliance and all its Members a non-exclusive, non-transferable, worldwide, perpetual, irrevocable, royalty-free copyright license to copy, publish, license, modify, sublicense or otherwise distribute and exploit your Feedback for any purpose.  Likewise, if incorporation of your Feedback would cause an implementation of the Distribution, including as it may be modified, amended, or published at any point in the future ("Future Specification"),  to necessarily infringe a patent or patent application that you own or control, you hereby commit to grant to all implementers of such Distribution or Future Specification an irrevocable, worldwide, sublicenseable, royalty free license under such patent or patent application to make, have made, use, sell, offer for sale, import and export products or services that implement such Distribution or Future Specification.  You warrant that (a) to the best of your knowledge you have the right to provide this Feedback, and if you are providing Feedback on behalf of a company, you have the rights to provide Feedback on behalf of your company; (b) the Feedback is not confidential to you and does not violate the copyright or trade secret interests of another; and (c) to the best of your knowledge, use of the Feedback would not cause an implementation of the Distribution or a Future Specification to necessarily infringe any third-party patent or patent application known to you.  You also acknowledge that the OSGi Alliance is not required to incorporate your Feedback into any version of the Distribution or a Future Specification.

# Feedback

Pursuant to the [OSGi Distribution and Feedback License](http://www.osgi.org/Main/OSGiDistributionAndFeedbackLicense), the OSGi Alliance welcomes your feedback on the documents in this repository. Feedback can be provided by opening a bug in the [OSGi Public Bugzilla system](https://www.osgi.org/bugzilla/enter_bug.cgi?product=OSGi%20Specification).
